#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass elsarticle
\options preprint,5p
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf2
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout BeginFrontmatter

\end_layout

\begin_layout Title
Performance comparison of new and traditional arrangements of a dish-Stirling
 system
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Cheng Zhang
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
label1
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Address
School of Energy and Power 
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
label1
\end_layout

\end_inset

Engineering, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Yanping Zhang
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
corref{cor1}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
label1
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Email
zyp2817@hust.edu.cn
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Inmaculada Arauzo
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
label2
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Address
CIRCE Research Institute, University of Zaragoza, Maria de Luna, Zaragoza,
 
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
label2
\end_layout

\end_inset

Spain
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
cortext[cor1]{Corresponding author}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
The solar dish Stirling engine system is well known for its high light-to-electr
icity conversion efficiency.
 However, solar dish systems are not widely applied due to the limitation
 of dish collector size and Stirling engine size.
 This paper puts forward an effective way to overcome the limitation by
 using Stirling engine array (SEA) in the solar dish system to increase
 the power of Stirling engines.
 The performance of an SEA is affected by its connection type.
 To find out the influence of connection type, five basic connection types
 were proposed and SEA analytical models were developed based on Stirling
 engine model.
 In the engine model, non-ideal heat transfer, power losses due to pressure
 drop, finite speed of piston and mechanical friction, and heat losses due
 to internal conduction and shuttle conduction were analyzed.
 The model was evaluated by considering the prototype GPU-3 Stirling engine
 as a case study.
 Based on the SEA models, global efficiency and power of different connection
 types of SEAs with the same hot and cold flows were calculated.
 Effects of different factors were considered.
 Result shows that flow order has little influence on the SEA performance,
 and serial flows connection type is the best for an SEA to obtain best
 performance and adaptability for given heating and cooling fluids.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Keywords
Stirling cycle, Stirling engine model, Stirling engine array, connection
 type
\end_layout

\begin_layout EndFrontmatter

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the emphasis on energy and environmental impact, recently gaining attention
 is focused on Stirling engine for its high efficiency, low maintenance
 requirement, flexibility on energy sources, no pollution, low explosion
 risk.
 Due to its closed cycle, it can use almost any heat source, which makes
 it compatible with alternative and renewable energy sources.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Stirling engine is widely used on solar dish system, known as dish-Stirling
 system.
 In a traditional dish-Stirling system, each Stirling engines is put on
 the focus of a parabolic dish to use the heat collected by the dish receiver
 for power generation.
 However, solar dish systems are not widely applied yet for its small capacity.
 Its capacity is mainly constrained by two factors: dish collector size
 and Stirling engine size.
 The dish size is limited for the cost and difficulty of production of large
 mirrors.
 The Stirling engine size is limited for its low power-to-weight ratio.
 The tracking feature of dish collector limits the weight of engine on the
 focal point.
 Besides, the size of engine is limited for it overlaps part of the collector.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper presents new arrangements for dish-Stirling system demonstrated
 in Figure~
\backslash
ref{fig:Dish_SEA} to solve the limitations.
 Stirling engines are put on the ground as a Stirling engine array (SEA).
 Heat collected by multiple dish collectors, or other types of collectors,
 or combination of different types of collectors, even heat from different
 heat sources is supplied to the SEA.
 Since the engines are static installations on the ground where space and
 weight are not at a premium any more, they can reach higher capacities.
 They can be connected in a different connection type and their performance
 may be improved compared to the traditional arrangement in which they are
 put on the focal points of each dish collector separately.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
